You need to learn Windows right now. No,
you really do. And let me tell you why.
Microsoft Windows is everywhere. It
has over 75% of the desktop market,
meaning out of all the desktop OS is out
there, 75% are using Microsoft Windows.
And that's a lot of people
and a lot of businesses.
And that's the biggest thing I wanna
focus on. Why does that matter? Why?
Why do you care? Jobs
if you want a job in it,
knowing Windows from the admin
support perspective, it's required.
Especially if you're just starting out
trying to get that first job in it.
Usually help desk and think about it.
It just makes sense if
most companies use Windows,
most companies need people like you
with Windows skills. And by the way,
I'm not just talking about, oh,
I've launched Command Pro before.
I mean actually knowing Windows, how
to support it, administer it, fix it,
break it. And speaking of
breaking, that's another thing.
If you wanna become a
hacker, ethically, of course,
how can you not learn windows?
Most of the time it's gonna be the thing
that you're hacking and you can't hack
it if you don't know it, you can't
hack it. Like seriously took this up.
I'm going for this new
hacking certification from
Hack the Box called the CPTs
so I can become less of a hacking new
and look at the prerequisites windows.
So you gotta know Windows.
And in this video I'm going
to introduce you to Windows.
And you may think you already
know Windows, you don't.
There's a big world of Windows
that you haven't even thought of.
And that's what we're covering in this
video. It's more than just a desktop.
You play games on or run Excel.
I don't know what users do.
And then I'll also show you
what it means to know Windows,
the difference between having user
knowledge and having admin knowledge,
which is the knowledge you'll get paid
for by companies. That's what you want,
right?
I'll also show you how you can start
building out your own Windows lab because
you gotta have that. If you
wanna learn something in it,
you have to play with
it. You have to break it.
And even if you're a Mac and Linux user,
I'm gonna show you how to get
access to this. And finally,
if I convince you to learn Windows
and you wanna learn it as a skill,
I'm gonna show you some resources,
courses and certifications that you
can take that will teach you Windows.
And by the way,
I'm creating a little Windows Fundamentals
course right now that you can check
out, lean Below. But I'll talk
more about that here in a bit.
Now we're gonna cover a
lot. So before we do that,
let's take a quick coffee break and talk
about something a little controversial.
Kind of the elephant in the room.
Windows is really insecure, right?
Like people who are using Windows
are always getting hacked. Yes,
I'll give you that. Windows
people are always getting hacked,
but it's not because Windows is
insecure, it's because it's popular.
If you're a hacker writing malware,
you're gonna write malware for the masses.
So as a Windows user,
what can you do to protect the most
targeted OS in the world? Use nor vpn,
the sponsor of this video. Now
I know what you're thinking.
Why <laugh> doesn't make any sense,
nor VPN is just a nor vpn, right?
How's it gonna protect me against malware
and phishing attacks and all these
nasty things coming out? My Windows
pc, it's just a vpn, right? No,
actually not. If you haven't
looked at norv PN in a while,
it's got a few new tricks
of its sleeve. For example,
they've got threat protection now. So
in addition to being the fastest VPN,
that'll hide your IP address,
giving you a bunch of cool features,
you can now go into your Nora VPN app,
click on that little shield there and
turn on web and file protection with just
one click or two clicks
of turning on with that.
You're getting malware protection.
You try to go to malicious websites
and it won't let you do it.
It protects you from you. Like seriously,
if you try to download an infected
file with file protection that says no,
don't do that. It's also gonna help out
with blocking trackers, blocking ads.
It's kinda like having ads guard
or pie hole with you all the time.
And a URL trimmer, essentially
getting rid of your L tracking.
Now what's cool about threat protection
is that it's on all the time.
Even when you're not connected to vpn,
it's got your back on cyber threats 24 7.
Now,
beyond threat protection nor VPN does
something I don't see anyone else doing
and it's kind of cool. Check this
out. Right now on my network,
I configured my firewall to block
VPN connections. Check it out.
I'll try to connect to a US vpn and it's
just gonna sit here and try to connect
because my firewall can recognize
VPN traffic and go, no Uhuh,
you're not getting through. So I wanna
stop that. It's not gonna happen.
But no VPN now has obfuscated
<laugh> a very fun word,
servers right here.
Watch what happens when I try to
connect with one of those new servers.
Click go into Florida, my neck and
connected. Now why did that work?
Because my firewall couldn't recognize it.
It obfuscated or bewildered <laugh>
my firewall to where it couldn't
recognize the VPN traffic. Super cool.
Super handy. If you wanna try it,
check it out. Norv vpn.com/network.
Chuck, I got a link below. Seriously,
if you don't have a VPN or you
don't like the one you're using,
or if you do like the one you're using,
switch anyway. <laugh> use nor V vpn,
support the channel. Check it
out, link below. Seriously,
thank you to norv VPN for sponsoring
this video and making things like this
possible. Here we go. Part one, let
me show you just how big Windows is.
Stuff you can't even fathom. But first,
windows a history as fast as possible.
In fact, can I do it in 60
seconds? Editor? Give me 60
seconds somewhere. Ready?
Let's go. Windows was born in 1985.
It was a gooey or graphical interface
for Ms. Dos. Couldn't do much.
The most fun was the clock program.
In 1990, something amazing happened.
My wife was born also Windows 3.0.
This thing was revolutionary
software and file icons.
It looks dumb and slow right now,
but this was groundbreaking and also
kind of fun. You gotta try this.
I've got a link below. You
can do it for free. <laugh>,
look at control panel <laugh>. It's
amazing. It gave us virtual memory,
Minesweeper and solitaire. I was
always terrible at solitaire.
Not long after that was Windows 3.1,
which gave us Windows Media player.
This is seriously pretty
fun. You have to try this.
This one I had to build out myself in
virtual box. In 1995, we had Windows 95.
Let's start it up. <laugh>,
you hear that Windows 95 kind of feels
like home. It gave us our task bar,
our start button. This was
my first computer OS in
1998. We have Windows at 98.
Oh man,
this brings back the memories and it
seems much like Bill Gates demo of Windows
98. Mine is failing. Look
at us, me and Bill. You'll.
Notice that this scanner bill, whoa.
But it gave us improved USB support,
multiple monitors, which is kind of huge.
They were actually really big like the
one behind me back there and it just
looked prettier. I wish I could look
at it right now. Then things got weird.
We got Windows Me or Millennium
Edition came out in the year 2000.
It was terrible, but it did
come with automatic updates,
restore and Windows movie maker, which
is where I made my first YouTube video.
Fun fact, it was the original
Cinnamon Challenge <laugh>.
And it's the reason I'm doing what I
am doing today. But it wasn't all lost.
Windows 2000 came out in the year
2000. This is actually pretty good.
It had a server version of the same
name and it brought in Active directory,
which is what we still use today.
Then we brought out the Big Guns 2001,
my favorite Windows OS of all time
Windows xp. Let's start this Bad boy up.
Oh my gosh, look at this. Oh,
people use this OS forever. In fact,
it was the first OS I
supported on the help desk.
I had to migrate people off of XP to
Windows seven. This thing was amazing.
It was stable, it brought
in remote desktop.
It was a beautiful os mainly
because it had pinball.
I know my timer's out, I don't care,
I'm just gonna play pinball. 2006,
we had Windows Vista and no one
liked it. I thought it was okay.
I had a good time. But it
brought in Windows search,
windows Defender and user account
control, all which we use today. 2009,
brought in Windows seven, the only
good replacement for Windows xp.
It was beautiful, had great
performance security, it was great.
And then we had Windows
eight, which wasn't 2012.
They tried to build it
for touch applications.
Everyone hated and they took away our
start bar. Don't take my start bar,
but then they brought it back in
Windows 8.1, but we were so burnt by it.
No one <laugh>, no one did it.
They got smart and they released
Windows 10 in 2015, which was amazing.
We just left that version. It brought
us Cortana, which we don't use,
and the edge browser, which is
actually pretty cool now. And finally,
we're at Windows 11. Windows 11
gave us a better virtual desktop.
So we can do stuff like this. Let's
how you do it. Hold on. Oh yeah.
This old guy over here, right?
No. Oh, it's this guy <laugh>.
Why couldn't I find that? Yeah, create
a new desktop. Kind of neat. Again,
I don't use it <laugh> ever. And
we got, you know, widgets I think.
And the apps look different
in our start menu,
but you can't really call a start menu.
I mainly just do Windows Key. Okay,
I'm I'm rambling. Things look visually
different. They perform better.
That's what we're using now. That was
Windows history in exactly 60 seconds.
I did it right? Yes, but what if
I told you that's not everything.
There's another world of Windows
that you don't even know about.
They were released around the
same time of each edition.
They're hiding in the background.
I'm talking about Windows servers.
I'm not gonna go over everything,
but here's a list of all of
them released over the years,
starting with Windows NT 3.1 in
1993 and now we're at Windows Server
2022. Notice they have a yearly naming
scheme now starting in Windows 2000.
But that's the first big thing I
want you to know about Windows.
They probably didn't know there are
servers, windows servers. But why?
Like what is that for? Because as a user,
you're probably just familiar with
Windows 10, windows 11 using the desktop,
using the laptop, gaming. What's the
server do? Let's talk about that.
A server provides services. So like
right now you're watching me on YouTube,
right? This service is being provided
by a web server somewhere. In fact,
everything you visit on the internet
is a server providing you a service.
So when we're talking about Windows
server, what is it providing services to?
Well,
in a company you might be running Windows
Server 2022 in your data center and
then deployed out to all your employees
will be Windows 11 on their desktops,
on their laptops or whatever it is.
And the Windows server is doing some
pretty cool stuff like centrally managing
user accounts through a little tool
we like to call active directory.
Active directories huge.
It's a skill you have to learn
and think about what it does.
Instead of an admin having to go to each
machine and creating a user account for
each user, which would be tedious,
time consuming and frankly maddening.
I'm kind of going crazy just
writing this out multiple times.
Can you imagine actually creating it?
Oh my gosh. Instead of doing that,
I've got a server spun up right here.
You would launch a doc or active director
users and computers and create a new
user, Bernard Hack. Well by
the way, on the help desk,
you'll probably end up doing this a
lot. So if you already know this skill,
if you can say, yeah, I've done that
before. I've got my own lab at home,
I've got this running,
that's pretty killer.
Let's go to finish creating this user.
And what's crazy is that
user I just created,
he can log in to any of the
computers at my company.
Doesn't matter where he
goes, he tries to log in.
The server running Active directory
will handle the authentication.
The server will also act as
centralized storage, creating shares,
network shares through the
file and storage service.
Create a new one right now.
This creates a network folder that can
be accessed by anyone given permission
using the SMB protocol, which you'll
learn a lot about if you study Windows.
And then this thing will blow your mind.
Windows servers have a
thing called group policy,
which allow them to control everything
about all the workstations in the
company, everything down to
the smallest little thing.
And actually check this out, if
you're running Windows right now,
you can try this.
Every Windows computer has what's called
local group policy and you can do crazy
things. Try this, we're gonna
open it up. So hit your start bar,
search for group policy.
And you have the option to edit
group policy or you may not,
you may not have permission.
Someone blocked you with group policy and
you can do things like, lemme find it.
Preventing access to command prompt.
Enable it apply. Okay, try to launch it.
It's been disabled. I always
hated that when it happened to me.
Or you can disable removable USB drives.
So if someone had a flipper zero and
they were trying to use the bad USB
function, you try to plug
it into your computer,
but you would change this setting.
Deny a read access enabled bad
USBs, can't hurt you. Sorry,
I was gonna drop that <laugh>.
Let's put a back tape in his drawer.
Now just take a moment and appreciate how
many things you're able to change here
that aren't just available in the regular
menu like control panel and stuff.
And then think about how
you can do this on a server.
Just one little change in
group policy on the server.
And you can apply this to computers,
you can apply it to users.
It's insanely powerful, insanely fun.
I used to love deploying
things through group policy.
It's also kind of dangerous.
You gotta be careful.
Don't just go crazy with it If
you have access, and by the way,
there's nothing stopping you from
setting up your Windows computers in your
house with a window
server controlling them.
I actually do that right
now for my daughters.
I control everything they do on
their computers with group policy.
It's awesome and needed. You know
what I mean? If you have or sons,
I mean kids are crazy. No,
I'm just scratching the
surface on what servers can do.
It takes an entire course just to talk
about it. An entire certification.
We'll cover that here in a moment.
But what's crazy is in talking about
the big world of Windows that you don't
know, I haven't even talked I
about the cloud, Microsoft Azure,
Microsoft is all about the cloud.
They're pushing everyone to it.
Now what's the cloud? It's
just someone else's computer.
Instead of having a server here in my
closet here, I do have a server room.
Instead of putting it here,
I would put it in Microsoft's data
center and they would run it for me.
And everything I've talked about
regarding servers can be done in Microsoft
Azure and kind of at a crazy
scale and it can do a lot more.
I mention active directory. Well
we have Azure Active Directory.
You can deploy virtual machines, which
are Windows machines up in the cloud.
I'll actually show you how
to do that here in a moment.
People run their entire
companies in the cloud.
They even have their users accessing
remote desktops that are running in Azure.
So instead of like logging
into a computer at their desk,
they log into a computer at their
desk that actually is somewhere else.
It doesn't make any sense. It's really
cool, but it's actually, it's amazing.
It does make total sense if you study
it and learn it, which you should.
The cloud, Microsoft Azure, that's
a skillset that you should learn.
And when you do learn it,
well that's big money.
That's the skill companies will pay for.
I'll cover how you can learn that here
in a bit. Now speaking of the cloud,
let's talk about how you can get access
to Windows and build your own lab.
And I don't care if you already
have a Windows machine right now.
I mean you can play with Windows
on your current machine, but I,
if you're like me, you tend
to play too much and break it.
So if you want to avoid
breaking your own stuff,
it's helpful to build out another Windows
machine that you can feel good about
breaking and then just destroy it, build
it up again, which you can totally do.
Now to build your own Windows lab,
you do have a number of options.
I'm gonna show you two right now.
One you probably already saw coming.
Build Your lab in Microsoft Azure.
I love this option because it kind
of gives you the best of everything.
Not only are you building
a lab to learn windows,
but in the process of building that
lab, you're learning Microsoft Azure.
That is huge. Are you kidding me?
And anyone can do it and starting
out it'll be completely free.
So to set up a Microsoft Azure account
mean there is one kicker that people are
gonna be like, oh Chuck, you
said it was free. This is stupid.
Why <laugh> Chill with me here?
It does require you having a
credit card when you get signed up.
They do that for a couple reasons.
Well really one main reason.
They wanna make sure you're an actual
person and that's how they verify you're a
person. But they won't charge you
for anything unless you say yes,
I want to be charged this amount of money.
So you'll set up a free tier account
and right off the bat you'll get a $200
credit for the first 30
days to do a lot of stuff.
And let me give you an example.
So I did go out to Google and
I searched for Microsoft Azure.
You should do this right now.
You'll see here the option to set up a
free account and you can start free with
the $200 credit as promised.
And they have a lot of services
that are free all the time.
So if you wanna try this, by all
means do it. And once you have it,
check this out. This
is Bernard Hack Well's,
a free Azure account right
now he's on the free tier.
I have a Windows server
and Windows 11 running.
In fact that server I was showing you
earlier, running in Azure for free,
that Windows 11 machine
also running in Azure.
I've been running these off and on for
a few days and it's only charged me $3
and 64 cents of my $200 free credit. Now,
even after your free credit,
running stuff in the cloud can be really
fun as a lab because they only charge
you for what you use. It's
pay as you go. So for example,
using their pricing calculator,
I'm pricing out a Windows 11 machine with
this particular sizing because it does
matter how big your machine
is, how much RAM and cpu.
This will cost me about 12 cents
an hour as you can see here.
And it's only gonna charge me that
while it's running. If I shut it down,
I'm not being charged
for it. So imagine this,
you set up a Windows lab in Azure. Let's
say it's four machines, couple servers,
couple windows, VMs, let's say 12 cents
an hour. And you study for an hour.
What's that? 48 cents, 50
cents, let's call it 50 cents.
It costs you 50 cents
that data to your lab.
I think it's a pretty cool way to
do it. Probably my favorite way.
And I always use Azure when I'm deploying
Windows stuff and playing with it.
It's my go-to. And while I got you here,
lemme show you how easy it is to
create a virtual machine in Azure.
So once you do have your account set
up, you might be kinda like, oh Chuck,
where do I go? Cuz it can be kind of a
lot <laugh>. Large companies use this.
Enterprises use this to run their entire
company. But once you're in Azure,
you can click on the little menu icon
on the left and click on create a
resource. You'll search for
what you wanna create for you.
It might be Windows 11, just hit enter.
And if you're using the free tier,
you'll want to use the Windows 11 preview,
which is just an advanced version of
Windows, previewing the newest stuff.
Create that. There's just a few things
you have to change, like the name of it,
if you scroll down a bit, you
can change the size of it.
This'll change how much
you'll be charged per month.
This one actually is
a pretty good machine.
Put in your username and and password
one you wanna create right now.
Check this licensing box. And then
there's one thing I always change,
just really one more thing I'll go
over to uh, I'll scroll to the top.
Click on monitoring. I will under
boot diagnostics, click disable.
And that's pretty much it. We'll
click on review and create.
It's gonna make sure everything's
good to go. Validation has passed.
And then we'll click on create
and just give it a minute.
Take a little coffee break.
I mean it is building an entire
computer for you in the cloud.
So give us some time.
Now while that's cooking,
I do wanna show you one thing
to give you some peace of mind.
Many of you may be worried, okay am
I'm gonna be charged a ton of money.
I've heard horror stories about the
cloud making people go bankrupt. No,
that's not gonna happen to you.
And let me show you how
you can make sure of that.
We're gonna go to the left here, top
left and display all our services stuff.
At the bottom left we have cost management
and billing. Click on that here.
It shows you everything that's going on.
It'll show you your free credits and
how much stuff you have remaining.
It'll show you what you have to due. So
for now, if you're using the free tier,
you'll have nothing due. And again,
once the free tier is over that 30
days and you do have services still up,
they're not gonna charge you for those
services. They're gonna say, Hey, um,
you still have stuff up. Do you wanna
start a pay as you go subscription?
And you can say yes or no.
And if you don't do anything,
they're just gonna shut
it down. No big deal.
Now let's say you do start
your subscription and you're
worried that you might
be overcharged or forget a virtual
machine was up or something.
You can fix that real easy.
You can go to cost alerts over here on
the left and we can add a new budget.
I'll name it, I don't
want to go broke, please.
And we can set a monthly budget,
like maybe it's 20 bucks.
And when we hit an actual budget of 50%,
send me an alert to this email.
Now let's go look at our virtual
machine and try to access it real quick.
Let's go to our menu. We'll
go to resource groups.
A resource group is kinda like a
folder containing a bunch of resources.
And when you created a virtual
machine, you created one as well.
Here I have my Windows 11 machine
group that was created for me.
And inside that I've got a few resources.
Mainly my Windows 11 machine right
here with a little computer icon.
I click on him, he's launched, ready
to go. If I wanna connect to him,
I got a little connect button up here
at the top left. Click on connect,
we're gonna connect via R dp and then
we'll download the R DP file right here.
Notice that downloaded a file here
on Windows. I'll just click it,
click on connect,
enter the account information I
configured when I first set it up.
And just like that, <laugh>,
I have a Windows machine in the
cloud that I can log into, mess with,
break destroy whatever anytime I want.
And you can access this from anywhere,
from any device, even your phone
using remote desktop. It's very easy.
But if you'd like me to walk you
through it, I've got it in my course.
Now if you wanna stop your virtual
machine and stop being charged for it,
we can go to overview and
simply click on stop. Yep,
I wanna stop it and it'll stop your
virtual machine. If you wanna delete it,
remove it.
The best way to do that most of the time
is to delete the entire resource group
that the virtual machine is part of.
So if I go back to my resource groups
and click on my 11 machine group,
I can click on delete resource group.
It'll ask you to confirm
by typing the name in,
so my Win 11 machine underscore group and
then delete everything in there. Cause
you'd have a network security group,
you've got a firewall group and and
a public ip. No, delete it again.
Here we go. Delete. So it'll clean up
everything for you. Now beyond Azure,
you can also run everything local,
setting up your own virtual
machines on your own computer.
Now this option is also very, very fun,
but only fun if you have enough
resources. Now what do I mean by that?
Well if you're not familiar
with virtual machines,
first of all go watch my video.
I detail everything about them.
But just know when you're
running a virtual machine,
you're running another computer on
your computer you have right now.
And much like inviting a
new person to live with you,
you're gonna have to share resources
with that new person or with that new
computer. And my question for you is,
does your computer right now
have enough resources to spare?
And what I mean is this, um, if you open
up your task manager here in Windows,
just go to your search bar, search
for task manager. There it is.
And you'll see right here we have a
little performance graph icon that we can
click on.
This will tell you how many resources
your computer is using right now.
The main concern for virtual machines
will be memory and the amount of disc
space you have. CPU is
definitely a concern,
but for most machines it's going
to not really be a problem.
Memory is a big one.
Now if you can see from mine right now
I have 64 gigs of memory and I'm only
using 50% and that's running
all my stuff right now.
So I know I could probably create four
or 5, 6, 7 virtual machines cause I have
so much memory available to spare.
If you're rocking a four gigabyte
memory laptop or something,
you're in trouble buddy. I wouldn't
do anything with virtual machines.
But if you have eight to 16,
you can probably run a few.
And what that's gonna look like
is downloading a hypervisor,
a free one called Virtual Box and
then downloading a Windows 11 ISO or
Windows Server 2022.
You can get a free trial version
and download any of these for free.
Let me walk you through that
real quick. It's not too crazy.
You can go to Google and simply
search for download Windows 11.
That'd be the first link in the search.
And you can just download an ISO
for SI x 64 devices download now
choose your language and then
simply click on download.
Now I do wanna caution
you with this <laugh>.
You do wanna make sure that
you have an X 86 X 64 system.
Most people do, unless you're running
the new MacBooks like M one, M two,
apple silicon, this is
not gonna work for that.
The new MacBooks are
built with arm processors,
meaning you'll need an arm-based os. Now
Windows 11 does have an ARM-based os,
but it's kind of difficult to get access
and find a good ISO to to use with
virtual box. But there is a really
easy way to do that with Parallels.
Parallels is a hypervisor similar
to Virtual Box but it's not free.
But they make it super easy to download
Windows 11. So if you wanna try it out,
they do a free trout for 14 days and
the first thing they ask you to do is
install Windows 11, which they
make it just, it's so stupid easy.
I don't know why it's so
hard for everyone else.
But once you have your Windows 11 iso,
you'll want to go download Virtual Box.
You'll just search for
virtual box and my Google,
click on that first link and
download it for whatever I'm using.
If you have an Intel based Mac,
it'll probably work for you.
Windows host Linux distributions that got
your back download and install that to
basic installation.
If you run into any issues specific to
virtual machines and working with Virtual
Box, check out my virtual machine video.
I do demo and detail a few things that
might be a bit of a stumbling block for
you. But once you have
virtual box up and running,
you simply click on new type in
what you wanna build. Windows 11,
that's what I wanna name it.
Type in machine, select your iso,
I would skip the unattended
installation. Click on next Notice.
It does default to four gigs of memory.
That's the minimum required for Windows
11, two virtual CPUs. That's fine,
you can increase it if you
want 80 gigabytes of storage,
it's not gonna pre allocate the
entire thing Next, next finish.
And all you gotta do is start that sucker
up and install Windows 11 like it's a
brand new laptop. It's kind of cool.
And you do have to hit the key to say,
I want a boot from the cd. I made that
mistake earlier, I forgot to do it.
And that process works for any server
OS you wanna go with unless you're using
Mac uh, in one processors.
Cause you can get a free trial of
any server OS right now for Windows.
It's pretty amazing. Now, how can you
learn Windows in a structured way?
I'm a big fan of this now you
can play with Windows all day,
but if you wanna get serious,
you'll want some kind of course
or structured learning plan,
like a certification to take you deeper
in the things that you wouldn't even
think about learning. There are two
options I wanna cover right now.
Certifications and courses. Let's
start with certifications. Now,
you know I love certifications.
The first one I would recommend
is the CompTIA A plus.
Now there's good and bad with
this. The good is that, man,
it covers so much in the certification.
If you want to become an IT person,
if you wanna get started on the
help desk, get your first job in it.
The A plus is a great start.
It was my certification,
but it covers everything
from USBs to tablets to some
Linux stuff.
It'll have a section on Windows os and
the basics of what you need to know.
It won't cover everything Windows.
So even some of the stuff we covered in
this video they're not gonna talk about.
That's gonna be very basic.
But it is a great starting point and it
will look pretty good on your resume.
It'll help you get a job. Now the other
option is going Microsoft specific.
Microsoft does have certifications.
Let's go to Microsoft's certification
place and we'll talk about it. Now,
I do love Microsoft certifications, like
you'll learn a ton going through them.
My only beef with them is
that they change so much.
And here's the problem with that.
When you're getting a certification,
one of the main considerations that
you want something that's marketable,
so think ccna, compt A plus.
If you put that on your resume,
you know when an HR person or a
hiring manager sees that they,
they know what it is and
they know what, you know,
Microsoft kind of struggles with that.
They used to have what's called the
MCs A, which is very recognized.
It was like similar to the ccna,
but then they did away with it.
And I don't even know, like <laugh>,
I couldn't tell you off the top of my
head what the certifications are apart
from the Azure ones, which are marketable.
So let's talk about that right now.
First, let's go Windows specific.
A brand new one that I really like,
if you wanna learn Windows and Windows
desktop at a deeper level is the MD
1 0 2, the Microsoft 365 certified
modern desktop administrator associate.
And I say modern because you're gonna
be learning about it from the 365 view,
which is like their cloud
version of how to manage stuff.
I'm not gonna go deep into that now,
but it does include Microsoft 365,
some Azure,
but also a lot of managing and deploying
and fixing and supporting Microsoft
Windows. Now again,
I don't see a lot of people asking
specifically for this because no one knows
about it. You're gonna be doing
this one for the knowledge,
and if a hiring manager
does happen to look at you,
they like you and they ask you, Hey, what
is this thing? You can tell them, Hey,
latest and greatest, I know my
stuff. Then they'll go, oh, okay.
But it's getting past that initial HR
screen that this might give you a problem
with. Now beyond this one, they have
the Microsoft certified Windows server,
hybrid administrator associate,
a mouthful and a half.
This one's more server focused.
I would recommend if you, man,
you're going hog wild with windows,
go to the MD 1 0 2 first and
then jump and see this guy.
Looks like it does take two exams
to get land the certification,
the AZ eight hundred and eight oh one,
and they say hybrid because
they're talking about
on-prem and a data center and
also in the cloud. Microsoft Azure.
A lot of companies are living in
both worlds right now, hybrid.
And then if you wanna go full on cloud,
which I've gotten both of
these certifications, I'm
about to recommend to you.
And I actually taught
courses on 'EM as well.
These certifications are fantastic. We
have the beginner version, the AZ 900,
Microsoft certified Azure Fundamentals.
If you're new to Cloud, perfect.
If you're not new to cloud,
jump straight into the AZ 1 0 4,
Azure Administrator Associate Landing.
These two certifications
makes you crazy valuable.
If you want to get started at Nit
Man, having this will be solid.
I have to say this,
it will help to know a bit of Windows
before you start these because these are
very cloud focused. They're focusing
on deploying stuff and Microsoft Azure,
but they're assuming you already
know how to deploy Windows and what
servers are like.
They're assuming a lot and
they're assuming you can
take that knowledge and then
learn how to deploy that in the
cloud. So as a prerequisite,
I would say learn Windows, and that
was from the certification perspective,
but I don't necessarily think you
need a certification to learn windows.
Learning windows can be done in a course.
A course that gives you enough to
move on to the more advanced things.
That's part of the reason right now.
I have a Windows Fundamentals
course on my academy.
It is currently in development and it'll
probably be finished by the time you
see this, and you can look at it link
below right now. But in that course,
I give you enough to be dangerous with
windows and enough to step forward to the
next things and not feel
like a fish outta water.
So you could step forward into
the Azure world and not feel like,
I don't know windows. You know,
you'll have enough skills.
Or if you wanna become a hacker,
you can learn enough windows
in this course to move
forward and be dangerous and
start learning more advanced
things. It's fundamentals,
it's giving you a good foundation.
Other courses I love are
on Hack the Box Academy.
They have a Windows Fundamentals course
that is mostly actually all text-based,
so if you enjoy reading,
you'll have a good time.
And they do have labs built into it,
which is a really, honestly pretty killer.
That's all I got. I'll
catch you guys next time.